## Candidate Template

* Name: Leah Amelia "pluie" Chen
* GitHub handle: pluiedev
* Email address: hi@pluie.me
* Discourse handle (optional): pluiedev
* Matrix handle (optional): @pluieuwu:matrix.org

### Conflict of interest disclosure

While I am not currently employed and therefore unaffiliated with any for-profit organizations or companies that are involved with (or even necessarily aware of) Nix or would benefit from my SC candidacy, I am personal friends with fellow candidates and nominees Scrumplex and getchoo. While it is undeniable that due to my personal connections I could be more inclined to be in concordance with them compared to others within the Committee, I do not think that this will compromise my integrity and independence as a candidate, and I'll always be forward with my own opinions even if it puts me at odds with my friends. 


### Motivation to be on the Steering Committee

#### What I have done

Before this election I've had a relatively low profile in the wider Nix community, serving mostly as a maintainer of a dozen packages in Nixpkgs, and as an occasional reviewer specializing in reviewing beginner contributions to Nixpkgs. (To this day I have not gotten committer access, mostly because I think I'm not yet proficient enough in Nix to accept that responsibility.) Other than that, I've made a few contributions to nix-community repositories like nixos-hardware, Home Manager, plasma-manager, etc.

Outside of Nix, people mostly know me from [Ghostty](https://github.com/ghostty-org/ghostty) as both an active developer/maintainer, but also as a community manager that helps to keep our discussion space productive and answering any questions I'm able to answer. On top of that, I  have a background in community moderation, community management, team coordination and conflict de-escalation, especially with an intersectional perspective that can help organizations avoid common blind spots that can be hard to notice for tech communities dominated mostly by cisgender, male, white, Euro-American members.

#### What I will do

One of my key objectives is for the Steering Committee to refocus on its original purpose: to steer and lead other teams within the NixOS Foundation, making sure that they stay within compliance of our community values, conduct and boundaries, while leaving the day-to-day execution at the discretion of the individual teams. As demonstrated in the recent fallout between the moderation team and the incumbent Steering Committee, it is clear that SC overreach has a negative impact on the cohesion of our team members, and I am going to prioritize establishing the SC as a cordial advisor and observer, not just for the moderation team but also for other teams as well, by limiting the scope of the SC's responsibilities and allowing each team to enjoy more autonomy as long as they serve our community in accordance to our values and principles — the SC should not override teams' decisions unless they are found to be blatantly against community values and/or unconstitutional.

Reforming the SC and dismantling the SC's perceived "shadowiness" and opacity is also very important for me. To ensure accountability and transparency in this organization, I am in favor of publicly releasing all meeting minutes, agendas, individual voting results and decisions, and restricting censorship to information that involves personal data or may otherwise compromise someone's identity, safety and confidentiality, or other information that we are not allowed to disclose due to legal reasons. The SC should also publicly post progress of our goals and initiatives, and to be candid and genuine in our reports. While the SC is designated to hold other teams accountable, it should also be accountable by the myriad members of the community.

Another part of steering is to establish goals and initiatives for other teams, and allocate the resources needed to achieve them. A few efforts I am particularly concerned with are (in no particular order):

*   Infrastructure: In an increasingly geopolitically divided world, we need to make sure that the infrastructure behind Nix is robust against actions by any state to ensure our goal of maintaining a global community. To that end, I will push for talks with the infrastructure team to explore solutions to mitigate single points of failure currently present in the ecosystem (e.g. the reliance on GitHub and the S3 cache), as well as potentially enlisting outside help to broaden the global reach of the Nix project, like volunteer groups outside of Europe and North America who are dedicated to ensure Nix's availability;
*   Nix (the package manager): Currently Nix is in a very uncertain position with no clear goals, in contrast to Lix's emphasis on stability and long-term health of the project, or Determinate Nix's commitment to stabilize and propel experimental features like Flakes to reach general availability. It is also in a perpetual state of gridlock (and even arguably neglect) as 400+ PRs and over 3000 issues stretch the Nix team's resources increasingly thin. As the SC we should steer the Nix team to define what the short- and long-term goals of Nix are; encourage the Nix team to focus more on empowering the community to contribute to Nix instead of doing everything on their own (e.g. improving documentation, refactoring the codebase, identify sprintable or contribution-friendly issues, etc.); and strike conversations with the Lix team and Determinate Systems in formulating a common basis of Nix implementations so that both users and developers can use software and packages that target the same specification.
*   Defusing tensions: It's telling by how many Q&A issues for nominees this year (and also last year) pertain to clashes within the community, that we as a community are in a historically very difficult place to strive for togetherness and forgiveness among one another. However, I think that it is impossible to achieve true peace and reconciliation if we, as the SC, simply ignore the discontent that lingers in many of our community members and the wounds that have not healed since 2023. As interpersonal and interorganizational conflicts can be very complex and require as much impartiality as there could be, I propose that we formally adopt a first-party mediation program that any community member can use to discreetly and safely resolve historical conflicts. Additionally, the SC should also begin talks with organizations that have had conflicts with the NixOS Foundation in the past (e.g. Lix, Determinate Systems) to find more common ground than things to disagree on. Only through open, sincere dialog can we manage to move forward as a community, instead of walking around in circles of drama.
*   Cultural gatherings and events: I believe that one of the most effective ways to build a community is to gather in person; this year's NixCon, for example, broke attendance records on top of last year's already resounding success, and I thoroughly enjoyed my experience there and made lots of new friends along the way. Hence in my opinion the SC should encourage more in-person exchanges and events (such as Nix user group meetups, Nix talks in other conferences, etc.) that allow members of the community to partake in dialog that are less affected by the amplifying, radicalizing and distorting effects of online discourse. The SC should also encourage more editions of NixCon outside of Europe — a common complaint I have heard from many attendees from Asia and the Americas is that Europe is physically too far away and prohibitively expensive to reach. I would especially push for a future NixCon (or another event similar in budget) in East or Southeast Asia, as there are many folks that are vitally important to the community but are underrepresented in Nix conferences.
*   Relationships with corporations: The Nix project currently does not own the Nix trademark which is a legally unsound position given increasing corporate interest in adopting and relying on Nix. It also does not have a formal sponsorship policy, which would concern potential sponsors about whether their sponsorships would be accepted (see also [Mitchell Hashimoto's blog post](https://mitchellh.com/writing/advice-for-tech-nonprofits) on the common problems faced by interested sponsors and donors of tech non-profits). Both problems need to be fixed as soon as possible given mounting costs and Nix's gradual mainstream adoption.
